and introduction to the book of Job.
This book is grouped with four other poetic books,
and it is among the oldest books in the Bible.
It was completed by Moses about 1473 BCE,
toward the end of the Israelites' 40-year trek in the wilderness.
The man Job lived in us.
Sham, a forefather of Abraham,
was likely an ancestor of Job as well.
Even though Job was not an Israelite, he was a worshiper of Jehovah.
Job was very wealthy.
He had many servants and owned thousands of sheep, camels, and other livestock.
He and his wife had ten children, and he was highly respected in his community.
However, all of this was lost because of a series of tragic events.
At the time Job's trials took place,
Jehovah said that there was no one like Job on the earth.
Therefore, we can place these events after the death of the faithful man Joseph,
but before Moses became leader over Israel.
The book of Job contains 42 chapters.
Chapters 1 and 2 reveal events that took place in the heavens.
Satan challenged Jehovah and claimed that Job would not remain faithful when faced with adversity.
Chapters 3 to 31 contained several rounds of debates between Job and his three companions,
Ella Faz, Bill Dad, and so far.
Ella Faz ridiculed Job's integrity and implied that man is useless to God.
Bill Dad suggested that Job was suffering as punishment for his sins.
So far, harshly insinuated that Job was wicked.
Job attempted to defend himself from these accusations,
but in doing so, he made incorrect statements about Jehovah.
In Chapters 32 to 37, after listening to a Job and his companions had to say,
the young man Ella who offers wise counsel.
Then in Chapters 38 to 41, Jehovah, speaking out of a windstorm,
corrects Job's thinking with thought-provoking questions about creation.
Did you know?
The book of Job describes the earth as suspended upon nothing,
a fact that was not widely recognized until centuries later.
In the final chapter, God commands Job's three companions to offer a sacrifice
and tells them that Job will pray in their behalf.
Jehovah then restored Job's health and reputation,
gave him double the wealth he had before, blessed him with seven more sons and three more daughters,
and allowed him to live for an additional 140 years.
As you read this book, pay attention to how this account proves
that Jehovah is not the cause of human suffering.
How events in the heavens help us to understand the issue of universal sovereignty,
and how the outcome of Job's trials gives us a glimpse of future Kingdom blessings
for those who remain loyal to Jehovah.